This sheep looks a bit like a big badger.
Meaning “white blaze” in Welsh, the Balwen sheep is named after the distinct marking on its face. Traditionally this was used by farmers to differentiate their flocks from neighbouring flocks of Welsh mountain breeds.
The striking Black Welsh Mountain Sheep is self-reliant and adaptable and you can expect to meet it in upland areas of Wales.
The Border Cheviot’s reputation for being hardy and alert is no surprise considering it's thought to have developed from the sheep who swam to shore from the wrecked ships of the Spanish Armada.
Is it a sheep or is it a rabbit? Despite looking so alert, Border Leicesters are a docile breed of sheep.
Castlemilk Moorits were created in the 1900s to enrich Sir John Buchanan Jardine's estate, after which they are named.
The burly Cheviot can be found up and down the UK as well as abroad.
Cotswold sheep have a reputation for being calm and friendly and are thought to have originated from sheep kept on large Roman estates.
The impressive Dalesbred is indigenous to the scenic Yorkshire Dales but has made its way further afield. Its dense wool is often used to make carpets and occasionally tweed.
Being one of the oldest sheep breeds in Britain, the sturdy Derbyshire Gritstone is well adapted to life in the upland Peak District.
Cuddly Devon and Cornwall Longwools are said to produce more wool than any other British breed.
The beautiful Dorset Horn sheep leaves no questions as to where it gets its name. Its also the only British Sheep capable of breeding through winter.
The easy-going Easycare sheep was developed in the 1960s. It sheds its wool in summer and requires minimal veterinary care. Its shed fleece even decomposes to act as a natural soil conditioner. This might be the coolest sheep around.
The Exmoor Horn descends from sheep that wandered the moors of Exmoor for hundreds of years. Despite this, breeding Exmoor Horn ewes only account for around 10% of all sheep on Exmoor.
The beautiful Greyface Dartmoor can be recognised by its distinctive face markings.
Small yet striking, the Hebridean Sheep has bounced back from near extinction in the 1970s.
The iconic hardy Herdwick can often be found enjoying the Lake District with a smile on its face.
Named after the Biblical figure of Jacob, the Jacob sheep is more closely linked to sheep from Africa and South-West Asia than other British breeds.
Owing its name to the village of Kerry in Wales, the Kerry Hill sheep is easily recognised by the striking markings on its friendly face.
Llanwenogs are a rare breed of sheep originating from West Wales’ Teifi Valley.
The adaptable Lleyn sheep is from North-west Wales and enjoys both upland and lowland grazing.
The Lonk gets its name from the word ‘lanky’, meaning long and thin. It's commonly found on the central and south Pennine hills.
As its name suggests, the Manx Loaghton is native to the Isle of Man. Its also one of the rarest sheep in Britain.
The Norfolk Horn is one of the oldest sheep in Britain.
Named after the northernmost island of Orkney, the original semi-feral North Ronaldsay flock feeds almost entirely on seaweed.
The Portland sheep remained isolated on the island of Portland while the rest of the UK was experimenting with breed development.
New Zealand’s impressive sheep industry is in part owed to the Romney, but their hardiness means they can be found all over the world.
Rough Fells are one of the three breeds of sheep native to Cumbria as well as being one of the largest mountain breeds in Britain. Because of its special fleece the Rough Fell doesn’t require housing, even during the harshest of winters.
Considered to have some of the finest wool in Britain, Queen Elizabeth I insisted on only wearing stockings made from wool from Ryeland sheep.
The Scottish Black Face is the most common sheep breed of the United Kingdom. Its friendly face makes it a welcome sight wherever you go.
Despite their delicate gazelle-like appearance, Soay sheep are resilient and can survive in exceptionally harsh weather conditions.
The bulky English Southdown sheep is the shorter counterpart to the original Southdown breed of the United States.
The Suffolk sheep has been exported to many countries but originated from the Bury St. Edmunds area of Suffolk.
Both friendly and hardy, Swaledales can often be found mooching around the Yorkshire Dales, County Durham and around the Cumbrian Pennines.
Originating from the island of Texel off Holland, the Texel sheep is now one of the most widespread breeds in Britain.
Though known for its much-loved cheese, the Wensleydale is also blessed in the wool department.
